[Applause]
bruh
boom
good morning good afternoon good evening
man we're coming from hope you all are
doing well welcome everybody what's
going on what's going on
hey
what's going on
welcome back
we got a good night tonight i like this
one
right we're we're doing something
special tonight we're writing some
really bad code i mean bad
like i'm gonna get twitter dms bad you
know that's what we're talking about so
i'm glad you're here
welcome
get in here we got a lot of fun stuff to
do
we're going to be doing a lot of review
we're going to be talking a little bit
more about networking going to give you
some real examples that you can start
using
we're going to talk a little bit more
about the concerns folks have around
networking
and then we're going to move into
writing some actual layouts like coding
some actual layouts we're going to go
back and look at uh techcrunch khan
academy bbc we're actually going to do
them this time we now have the power
right we have the power to build not
only the html but the css and get the
layouts going make it look like the
actual photos are close
so excited you're here
you do have the power exactly
uh the question for today
hey vegan days thank you for the 10
gifted subs i appreciate that thank you
for being here
that's wild thank you so much
[Laughter]
that's really nice of you i appreciate
it
yeah you all been popping off hold on
let me let me see where we're at right
now
the the the primers the primers the the
folks throwing around jeff bezos's bucks
have been popping off
we're at
2377 subs right now
that's wild
i never my wildest dreams
uh so appreciate every single one of
y'all i can't wait until we can get that
going right to rc uh it's gonna go right
into our emergency fund for our next
cohort i know it's gonna help so many
folks that struggle
that need to be able to see
psychiatrists doctors but they can't
afford it that's what that's going
towards i appreciate you all thank you
indifferent hey thank you get the subs
alrighty folks uh we have a question of
the day
we have a question of the day
and so i would love to see your answer
to the question of the day
today's question of the day is would you
rather all of your sentences
have to say all of your sentences
backwards or have to communicate only
through charades
for a week
seen a lot of charades way more
straights than i would have thought
raids all right sure you all went all in
on surrey that's wild
i would try i don't know
so
i i think last time i would have said
sentences backwards because i find that
be like a fun exercise
but me and my family we got pretty good
at charades
so here's here's the secret to serrate
that's something nobody's ever told you
about the secret to charades is you got
to play it with the folks you're going
to play with like by yourselves you got
to come up with all your secret words
your your book that's a book three words
you got you got to come up with those
things ahead of time
and then you then you just beast it
because when you go up against other
people that don't have like all the
things worked out
it's over it's a wrap
um
it's not cheating it's
preparation the preparation i'm going to
the i'm going straight to the top uh
wherever the charades world championship
is that's where i'm going and they all
do it they all do it
all right so it's pretty is that legal
hey
hey i'm not saying anything here
note to self never play charades with
leon
alrighty folks you know how we like to
do it
i always like to start our evening uh
with questions and so let's bring up the
questions slide
what questions you got for me
just to get folks in here
give folks a chance
win clark hey thank you for the donation
i appreciate that
is the cs go server ready it is we were
playing on it we got a good test round
in we had like 20 people on the server
it was pretty cool
um so the test server worked um i'm
probably gonna test it again tonight
i'm gonna
probably like a half an hour after class
is done and i send out all this stuff
i'm gonna open the server again and if
folks want to come and do another test
round with me i appreciate it
um i think we dialed in a lot of stuff
there's a couple modes that we're still
trying to figure out uh the person
that's helping me build out the server
we got we just got a few last things to
tweak
uh and then you're all welcome to come
hang out in the office so the the book
it's a cs go server uh that's 24 7
office there's a there's a map on cs go
called the office and that's all it is
so if you ever want to come hang out in
the office you're more than welcome to
and we're going to get that going so i
think tonight will be the last test run
and then we'll kind of leave it open 24
7.
uh cs goes a completely free game you
can download it it runs on like anything
a toaster i had it running on a
chromebook before like yeah it'll work
other questions
what's the logic behind us watching
independence day
it's a trust exercise it's how i weed
out the folks that trust me at this
point or not you almost gave me a month
this this week will be a month right and
so now i'm asking you to do something
and it sounds weird it sounds wild
and so this is this is my trust fall
either do it you don't trust me and like
either you do it and you trust me or you
don't and you leave right so like if
you're not gonna watch independence day
just leave the cohort it's all good
you can find it completely free to watch
online remember streaming is completely
legal downloading is not right and so
it's it's it's a trust thing that's all
it is
now it really does i really does think
it really does help
bring home a very important point when
we get to javascript right when we get
to javascript that really does help
hammer home a really important point and
so i need you to have watched the movie
um
before we get to javascript
where's the merch uh we don't have merch
yet for this cohort uh we're working on
getting like better higher quality stuff
and then we'll do merch a lot of people
keep asking for it so we'll do it and
last cohort we just did everything was
at cost like there was no way for
um like like whatever the cheapest price
i could set it is what it got set as
there's no like margin or anything like
that on there so as cheap as we can find
it at a good quality is what you all get
we're going to talk more about groups in
a few seconds
can we get 100 decal uh yeah we we do
have we did have stickers last drop and
so we'll do it
i am sipping some tea
as always
tazzo get me the deal
all right
i think we got everyone in here
i trust your curls oh that's one that's
one important thing before before we
move on i know
really leon get to class i i have an
important announcement to make
i will no longer be using ogx products
i'm i'm ending my relationship with ogx
and i'm looking for uh looking for new
opportunities and so
any any good hair care products out
there you let me know they got to be
vegan they got to be all the the the
sulfate free all the good stuff that to
be good for curly hair so if you know
something that's out there
you let me know okay
and uh
i'll take any deals that come my way but
i'm officially off team ogx
uh i got like a and this is this is
totally probably has nothing to do with
ogx and so i'm not even i'm not gonna
throw that out there i got like a little
bit of like a really bad like scalp
irritation on the side of my head
and it's like really painful
like really painful
and uh i was like crap well what's the
only thing that could be and i started
like looking up my shampoo and
conditioner and there's some like bad
stuff going down like people are like
currently suing them right now so i'm
like all right i'm done y'all cut it's
over i'm i'm a free agent looking for
new hair care products so
let me know
alrighty folks
let's get into tonight
tonight we're going deeper in how to
network
we're reviewing as always right as
always our basics of css of cs layout
we're going to recover our responsive
basics we're going to build some
responsive sites but really the thing
we're focused on is layouts we're going
to take a look at some of the layouts
that we've seen but actually start to
build them
right
actually start to build them
right and so
that's the goal for this evening
is to get our hands on the keyboard to
write bad code and be okay with it all
right
uh for those that haven't checked in yet
you can go ahead and check in as always
the check in link is in the follow along
materials then it's in the learn with
leon live and then they also have the
exclamation check in as well but if
you're already following me on twitter
you can just see the tweet come up and
go ahead and give that a like and a
retweet help swipes find us
and hopefully not spend so much money to
learn how to code
alrighty
study communities
uh before we jump into study communities
i just want to say a huge huge thank you
uh to blah our fearless moderator uh for
doing all the heavy lifting on this um
they they really made my life a dream uh
to kind of get this going
these study communities are going to be
a lot of work
a lot of work and they
they took the brunt of that labor to
help these things get off the ground and
get started and so huge thank you to
blah i really appreciate all your help
kind of getting this stuff rolling
so study communities let's talk about
what they are
right the study communities
are exactly that a group to study with
uh they are not the only place you're
going to interact with people they are
not uh the only channels that will have
some of these affinities or identities
made right
we have those kind of like already
channels in our main section um for
women in tech uh uh individuals of color
and tech right like we have those
channels we're gonna be adding to them
right so there will be other channels
that will be added there that'll kind of
be free talk
chat groups right like you can just go
out hang out there and chat
these study communities are like who do
you want to study with
right and so i know a lot of people are
going to see
and feel a certain type of way that you
can only choose two
you can choose one group and one
location group right and so you're not i
hope that you don't take it as like this
is the only thing that i can identify
with i am a gamer and now i'm only a
gamer no that's not the intention here
it's who do you want to have a smaller
group just to work with just to study
with even though we're going to have all
these other channels where you can chat
and interact with those individuals
right so you get one group one location
all right and so
please go ahead and fill out that form
if you would like to be put into a
smaller group each of these groups will
have their own chat channel but they
will also have their own voice channels
right and so a lot of these um
groups may have specialized voice
channels too like the adhd group will
have just like a quiet
cam only channel and so it's just things
to get like if you're thinking through
like who do i want to go through the
next 20 30 weeks with who do i think i
would study best with that's the group
you pick it's not the end-all be-all
they're gonna have plenty of other
channels and the other thing is that
this is
a big experiment
we've never done this before we might
get two weeks into it and it might be
the worst thing that's ever happened we
cut it all off and we go back to where
we were right
but we wanna we wanna try it right no
one's ever done
study communities at this scale so we
have no idea if it's going to work or
not work but we're experimenting and i
think if we can figure it out
this will make it so that we have
the ability to support people far and
into the future so uh know that this is
an experiment we're gonna have to
probably add stuff we might give the
ability to join more than one in the
future right but this is our first step
and we gotta take a smaller step in the
beginning so we don't fall completely on
our face there's a lot of weird stuff
that's going to happen with these groups
when we're first trying to get them
going trying to give everyone the roles
like it's a big big undertaking and so
please give myself
and the mods some grace as we go through
this process because it might just all
break but maybe something wonderful
happens instead right and so we're going
to try and i hope that you join a study
community and hopefully find a smaller
group to to work with to study with and
just give yourself a little bit quieter
of a space to hang out and mingle
all right
but i really just want to uh reiterate
that i know when you see the groups and
you can only pick one you're going to
feel like well wait i want to be in like
four or five of these that's okay we're
going to have those chat channels for
all of those groups it's just who do you
want to study with
and please don't like fill out the form
more than once we're just going to look
at your first application so
um don't don't like refill it out or try
to switch or anything take a little bit
seriously pick where you want to be and
we're going to throw it in and so
we're going to have the the survey open
today and then this weekend we're going
to start adding folks to the to the
channels
uh you definitely want to fill out the
form today
uh we're gonna leave it up over the
weekend um but definitely want you to
fill it out today if you're here now
fill it out please catch up crew fill it
out as you join us and we're gonna try
to start actually doing it like tomorrow
and saturday
all right
here's the form if you need it but it's
also in the following materials channel
all right submitting work uh we have
some work to submit today i want your 15
minutes of pain please uh that is the
responsive version where you tried with
the three different media queries put it
in a code pen please and submit the form
with your codepen link
as always
the homework submissions always up an
hour before class starts
so feel free to grab the link from there
or from the slides
can we use glitch instead yeah you can
use glitch replica codepen
um just pick one we just want to bring
bring the sights down as everyone fits
their uh
submits their homework so pick one i
think codepen has been the most stable
but whatever one you feel is is fine
yeah it doesn't matter which which one
it is
can we go over the homework of course
during office hours
come to office hours on sunday or feel
free to watch the uh vod as you have
time but we'll definitely go over
this homework on during office hours for
sure
remember office hours are every sunday
at 1 pm eastern time the vod is always
immediately available on twitch
afterwards
and the cool thing about office hours if
you just want to see
the homework solutions you can just jump
to the homework solutions because we
know that you just we're just answering
questions at office hours so jump to the
bits that you care about
50 minutes pain is still worth it we're
down the road folks big payoff here
during a great day the office with
devops failing our pipeline jammed oh no
deb hope you're doing okay
when are we starting github once we get
through javascript then we feel a bit
more comfortable with the terminal
cool
all right folks
are we still going to add more houses
we're definitely going to do the houses
the houses will just be study
communities so we're rolling out the
study communities making them making
sure they work and then we're adding two
more study communities which will be
touring and hopper
cool
networking
already folks
we
we started off
last class
by diving into the wonderful world of
networking
and
what
i need you to take in
and the thing i need you to hear
right from the beginning
is that most people are not good at
networking
most people
start off
feeling very scared
anxious
unsure
and not really
certain about how they're going to go
about networking i just want to make
sure that you understand that that is
completely
okay
we all start there some of us might have
a little bit of the more extroverted
genes but most folks start not really
undershore not really sure how to do it
and the only way to get that feeling to
go away
and to get to the other side
is to do it
we're all gonna have
some pretty
uncomfortable moments when we first
start networking we're all going to have
some pretty awkward moments we're going
to have we're going to shake someone's
hand forget our name like it's just
going to happen
right it's just going to happen
but i promise you the more you do it and
the more you find what works for you
the easier it becomes
not all of us are going to wind up going
to conferences or meetup groups some of
us might spend more of our time in
discords and slack channels and irc
channels right it's about finding what
works for you
so that you can unlock the thing that is
going to be the most helpful when you
get a job
now
there is this
weird thing
there's this weird thing
we don't get got we go get exactly
there's this weird thing that comes
comes up when you start talking about
tech
people really like to think
that it's the skills
that open the door for you to get a job
a lot of people like to say
tech
is a meritocracy
get in here real quick hold on get in
close
getting close
that's [__]
it's not
it's about who you know
and who is willing to open the door for
you
more so than the skills that you have in
your head and in your portfolio
it just doesn't get you through
that first
sniff test
the networking
is all about
getting you to the point
where you can get past that person
that's gatekeeping you getting the
interview and talking to the nerds where
your skills can shine and be the thing
that helps you get the job
but i need you to understand
that you need folks in your network that
are going to help refer you to jobs
they're going to help you skip that
first round of the interviews they're
going to help your resume get to the top
of the pile if you do not start putting
in the work to network
you're
going to run into a brick wall of an
uphill battle to get a job
now is it doable could you skip all the
networking and still get a job
absolutely
but we're talking about increasing the
odds ever in your favor
okay
something that i've seen
time and time again over my past five
years
thank you occ listen to leon
the thing i've seen at least in the past
five years
is my students that put in the work to
network here's how it really shakes down
right here's how it really shakes down
they will get referred
or networked in to 60 applications
what does that mean that somebody has
literally
like gotten their resume into into the
right person they've talked to a real
living breathing human being and made
sure their application was seen
60 of those
right 60 of those 60 is the number that
i push all my students toward
out of those 60
right
out of those 60 30 are going to ghost
you just straight up rip gone
just like not gonna like you you got
referred
you got networked in somebody you talk
to a real human being and something's
going to happen in the process where
like
half of them just disappear on you
so you want from 60 networked referred
applications down to 30.
out of those 30 you might get a first
round something might happen and it'll
turn into like 15 like real interviews
where you're talking to the nerds you're
talking to a real real coder right that
that's going to evaluate your skill set
right and out of those 15
you're going to get 1.7 offers
that's what the numbers i i've
calculated with my my my the nonprofit i
work at during the day our students get
about 1.7 offers out of the 60
well-networked
applications
right
so when you have someone that's just
clicking apply
on a hundred applications that's going
to go nowhere
if 60 referred
well-networked applications result in
less than two offers
right and so that's that's the the thing
i need to stress
and i don't want you to feel like that
it's an unsurmountable goal
i have seen folks from all walks of life
get good at networking but they
committed to a process that works well
for them
and then they put in work to get better
at it
right
and so we've talked about a lot of
different things you can do
we talked about meetups we talked about
conferences we talked about apps we
talked about online communities right
it's about starting that process
for the first
five years of my career like my first
five years of like a serious like i was
in boston hustling right
the first five years of my career i had
two coffee chats every week
there was literally not a single week in
five years that i did not have two
coffee chats
five years
every single client i have ever gotten
every single about dollar i've raised
has come
from
those
coffee chats or networking
right now like leon what about christmas
yeah there were some weeks where i
didn't but
by and far
two a week
not pushed
i knew every single person i needed to
know
and it helped me so much
every single job i've gotten
every single i've raised millions of
dollars for my startups every dollar
i've raised has come because i put in
the work to network and that has always
always
beared fruit
the job i have right now
right the day job i have right or i'm
managing director of engineering
resilient coders that came because i
decided to volunteer
right and i met people and they liked me
and then that's how it got me the job
right so like there are things you can
do that are networking that aren't just
the things we talked about right i
talked about volunteering being my one
of my favorite ways to meet people right
to network volunteering for conferences
even volunteering for local non-profits
like like there are so many facets of
things you can do to build this network
you have to find what works for you and
go all in on it right but it's a process
i said it last class
every single
coding bootcamp that's trying to get
people to jobs to get jobs should be 20
weeks of networking and at the very very
end right when you're about to graduate
they tell you to go do the odin project
right
this is what will unlock the doors is
what will get you the job and you can do
it
you can do it
we're gonna get practice together if
you're like leon i have no idea
how to do this guess what we're gonna
have a night where we all practice
together right i'm going to show you the
actual messages i send the people right
and so this doesn't have to be a thing
that you're good at today
this is not something you have to be
good at next week this is not something
you have to be good at this month it's
something that you have to keep in your
brain and build up and get better at
over time
but if you're doing this boot camp
if you're doing this boot camp you're
committing to networking
there's just so many other things you
could be doing
that if you want to be in this this this
cohort you want to be in this boot camp
it's a networking bootcamp surprise you
got got that's what we do
all right it's how we get jobs you can
ask
pretty much every single person that's
got a job there's so many of them in
this chat right now that have been
highlighting their messages right
right they've been writing their their
messages saying like listed this is what
got me the job this is how i got my
interviews right it's
it's it's just not something that i like
don't don't take my word for it listen
to the alumni go into the celebrations
channel like read what they said half
our students got jobs
without technical interviews let me say
it again
half our students got jobs with no
technical interviews i just literally
literally had a student this morning
telling me they got a job and there that
they said here's the offer letter i'm
they negotiated i'm accepting it and
then their last message to me
the last matches they said to me was no
technical interview
it was an 85 000 job
right they had never coded before and
the last thing they said to me
right
the last thing they sent to me no coding
interview that's what we're talking
about if you put in the work for this
networking stuff you get you get so much
out of it
i missed your message there sam
i networked my way into every contract
and job opportunity i've ever had never
clicked apply exactly
exactly sam
and if you all if y'all
don't know sam exclamation point sam and
chat
they're the best at this stuff like i
think i'm okay at networking sam's the
best definitely give sam a follow they
got a lot of uh really cool posts and
articles on like how to build your
network especially on twitter and and
online definitely give them a follow
slapper hey thank you for the for the
five gifted subs i appreciate you
all right
i've said my piece
it's up to you whether you believe me
and want to go down that adventure or
not
but i'll say it one last time
your skills don't open doors
they close them
your skills do not open doors they close
them your networking is what will open
the doors and then your skills your
portfolio your projects the things that
are in your brain are what will help you
close that door and get the job but they
don't open doors
all right
so
for those that are still stressing over
it the core thing we're trying to do
here right the core thing we're trying
to do here
is turn strangers into friends
that's it that's all networking is
this is my ted talk we're done
right you're trying to turn strangers
into friends
right
and turn strangers into friends
and you have to find a process that
works for you to be able to do that
uh i love local meetups i we talked
about this last class because the reason
i like local meetings is you just show
up and the act is showing up regularly
you get to see the same people i love
volunteering the act of showing up i get
to see the same people i love working on
open source projects because i get to
see the same people these are things
that you can do
that immediately take you from stranger
to acquaintance just because you're
doing it regularly
right and so there's a lot of those
types of things you could be doing that
will get you from stranger to
acquaintance pretty quick and then you
can lean over into friend territory as
well
all right
we talked about the follow-up pattern
uh and we we all made
we all made a a very
a very important promise right we meet
someone
the next day we send them an email
thanking them for their time
right in our emails there needs to be
three things
right in our emails we need three things
you need to tell me how we met
you need to provide some value
right provide some value
right
tell me how we met
provide some value and typically thank
me for my time
if somebody sends me an email with those
three things you're top of the your top
of the pack right so here's the normal
follow-up pattern you meet someone at a
meet-up a conference a an event doesn't
matter
the next day you send them an email
which we're about to see my template for
an email
uh three days later you add them on
linkedin and what do we never do chat
what do we never do when we add folks on
linkedin
we never ever add anyone on linkedin
without a message
some folks are a little confused on that
it's uh you're not sending messages when
you add someone there's always like a
little box to put a message uh so when
you actually add someone it gives you a
little place to put a message that's the
message we're talking about and then six
days later i add them on twitter
now people are saying leon
how do you get their email well i ask
i'll simply say hey i really enjoyed
meeting you tonight do you do you have
any contact information do you have a
business card or do you have an email
right
or some way to reach out to you and
normally they'll say yeah here's my
email right
people that are going to these events
right
they know that they're there to network
too
and so it's pretty common for somebody
to give me their email or their twitter
handle
right um but if i just know their name
there we go
hunter i o
right
hunter i o uh hunter io you can throw
somebody's name in the company they work
into and it'll give you their email
address
so let's see um
somebody works at i don't know
let's say linked
bin
all right they work at linkedin
you find email addresses
there you go linkedin.com and what this
will show you is it'll show you the most
common pattern at linkedin
so you can see that it's first letter
last name at linkedin.com boom
now you have a pretty good shot
at what their email address is even if
they didn't give it to you
that's it
boom done
it's not creepy it's networking folks
now
here's the thing
a lot of folks
start to to get in their head a little
bit here
they're like leon how does this not come
across creepy how does this not
people network i think a lot of folks
especially if you don't come from
um
a more professional background i want to
say like like a more like in the office
type profession right don't realize how
much networking goes down right it's a
big thing right it's a big thing right
and
interacting with folks right interacting
with folks
adding them to your network forming
connections forming business
relationships is a big deal
right it's a big deal and everyone does
it everyone does it and so if you're
going to meetups
right
if you're going to meet ups
right if you're going to meetups people
are kind of expecting that you might ask
them to follow up
right
they're kind of expecting it pretty much
every meetup i've ever gone to people
were really open to to the idea of like
hey i really appreciated you you mind if
i follow up with some questions you have
an email i've i've almost never ever
been turned down for that most time
people say oh actually it's easier to
add me on twitter or something like that
and you move on right now
the cool thing is
specifically in tech
everyone has to learn
right
everyone has to learn like i could take
the best engineer in the world
right and put them on a new technology
they're starting from the same place as
you are they're reading the
documentation they're asking a metric
crap ton of questions so in tech
people have to help each other if i
wrote a language i have to convey how it
works to you like that idea of like
connecting and sharing information is
like how tech started like back in the
day
back in the day you bought your apple ii
you spent three thousand dollars on your
computer you took it home
and it was a blinking cursor and that's
it a blinking rebel right and that was
it
there were no games
right
right there were no games there were no
calculators nothing on that computer so
what you would do is you would code a
calculator app
and then you would go to a meetup and
say hey
yeah look at my floppies folks all of
these have calculators does anybody have
a word processor i have a calculator i
would love a word processor and you
would literally swap your programs with
each other right
that's how tech started
it's always been on sharing it's always
been
built on like interacting with each
other building each other up right from
the very beginning so
most people that are in tech have had an
experience where somebody more senior
gave them the time of day went out of
their way to have coffee with them have
taken them underneath their wing in some
way shape or form
and so you have to realize that's the
type of
environment or type of community you're
entering into
right
so reaching out building connections
building engineering contacts is
something that we all do and it's like
the cornerstone of our profession
so that's why networking is so important
right and then people want to work with
other engineers that they know it's just
natural right it's just natural to want
to work with people that you know so
that's why this this networking is so
important
all right
here's an example of the email i would
like to receive
right
if someone met me hey thank you for the
posture check
and we had some hydrates coming
yesterday that i don't think i saw
so
janks
and d's cloud
thank you for um the hydration
all right here's here's the email that i
would like to receive
so we met at a meet up or something like
that here's email hi leon it was a
pleasure meeting you last night the
event was so well done it was exciting
to meet such an amazing group of people
i hope you're enjoying a well-deserved
break after pulling it all together so i
ran an event they met me at that event
they said it was great to meet me and
they
kind of
made it sound like they had a good time
at the event right
so that's kind of the first thing let me
know where i met you
thank me for my time right that's a
really good way to start
and then the last the second part here
is the important bit also i don't know
if you saw this yet but someone just
bought a 375 thousand dollar first
edition pokemon booster box and it wound
up being fake the guardian covered it
and i remembered you being mentioned
being a big fan hope you have a great
rest of the week
that right there is doing what what did
they just do in that second paragraph
bob is charming as hell
what did they do in that second
paragraph folks
exactly they provided value
i'm gonna remember this person
value doesn't have to be like a big
overwhelming gesture this shows me that
they read something they thought about
me and they provided some value right so
for me this is an amazing follow-up
email i remember where you met you you
boosted my ego a little bit and you
provided value i'm responding to this
email right
i'm responding to this email
cool
so we have that process of going from
meeting to email to linkedin to twitter
now can i tell you something
that stays between us
stays between us okay
don't tell anybody
remember i told you i was meeting two
people a week for years it was true
i used the sheet which you all have
but i did something else
i had a google doc on every single
person i met
every single one
every single person there's a google doc
with every single thing i can remember
from our conversation
uh with everything that i learned about
you
i put that into the google doc
i set up my google alerts for that
person
and you bet your dollar when i ran into
them
or if i saw them at the meet up
okay kids kid just played in the
lacrosse finals
hey bob how you doing nice to see you
again hope all things well how did uh i
know you said uh john's lacrosse finals
was like a big deal how did that shake
out did they win
ping pong
i did it
over and over again
is one of the best things i've ever done
in my life
so for me
i take this process very seriously i've
relaxed on it now these days but when i
was in my hustle mode i was in grind
mode i was trying to to build up my my
rolodex i i stuck to this follow-up
process
i made sure i i kept notes on who i met
i've thought of ways to provide value
and i always tried to provide more value
than came in
right and that's something that really
helped me throughout the early stages of
my career
all right
eventually you've built up a rapport
with these individuals right you've met
them
you
have kind of followed up maybe email
maybe you had a little bit of back and
forth and you want to ask for a coffee
chat or you met somebody really qui
really like really cool the night before
and you just want to jump straight to a
coffee chat uh here is
um
here is
i want to talk about that's a really
good thing
for someone with adhd you're super
organized i'm a mess
because i have to
if you if you ask my wife
what my biggest complaint in life is
is when somebody moves something
it's my biggest complaint in life
but when it when when the when i expect
it to be in a spot
and it's not in that spot
my life is over i don't know what to do
i i can't
i won't i won't remember to do it i
won't remember to to fix it i like it if
it's not in that spot it's all over
all right
i'm the same thing when it comes to my
digital life
i have to have what i call my second
brain which is a place where it's just
stream of consciousness
right stream of consciousness
everything that's in like that that's
like floating in my brain has to go into
this document
right
and then i take time
to take that stream of consciousness
stuff and put it into like more
respectable buckets
and i do this every single week i
schedule the time for it when i say
i live my life one google calendar
invite at a time i mean it if it's not
on the google calendar invite it's not
happening
no if fans or buts these kids got guts
it's just not going to happen
so all of these systems these processes
are things that i do every single time
because the one time i don't
i forget it and it just goes all out the
window so for me
my attention issues have led to like
very severe
[Music]
systems and if i don't have those
systems it's all over
cool so somebody asked i want to bring
it up um
i think once the adhd channel opens up
i'm definitely going to put some of my
tips in there i've been working on a
larger set of resources
for specifically adhd and attention
issues and then folks with dyslexia i'm
really hoping to get those out in like
another week or so um
but yeah so that's why i i i
i am i am not an organized person by
default i am a hot mess
and if i don't build systems it doesn't
happen
so i said what happens when you can't
locate someone in your own country uh
you expand your radius and maybe you
focus on remote
do i schedule fun hell yes i schedule
fun
it literally like has i literally have
like like i have a game night normally
most thursdays it literally says game
night on my calendar
um it literally i literally put like
sleep
right so everything's on there i have to
i just have to else it's just it's just
not going to happen
you know
cool
alrighty
so we thought sorry a little bit of a
side there
we want to get a coffee chat right we
want to sit down and spend um some time
getting to know someone remember like i
said people in tech want to give you
their time i
and don't do i'm not gonna i'm not gonna
do a coffee chat with you there's
there's thousands of you here right now
but
when i was in boston
i never turned down a coffee chat in the
history of people asking me i've never
said no now scheduling or stuff may have
fallen away or emails when it got lost
but i never said no
to a coffee chat and i would say out of
the coffee chats that i asked for
above 90 were yes like just straight
away had coffee chats right and so for
me it's just such a core piece of being
in tech
and getting to know others and
interacting with others that like it's
just a normal thing and so
how much of the conversation should be
talking versus listening
i think most like if you're asking
someone to a coffee chat and you've read
how to win friends and influence people
or you listen to it because it's free on
youtube listen you can listen to it um
you will have come across this idea
of
people like to talk about themselves so
i would say most of the coffee chat is
me being really interested in them i
want to hear about your background your
experience and i'm genuine like i really
do care about your background how you
got there your experience what it's like
to be an engineer at your company right
like all those things i'm just generally
want to be interested in and then that
makes them feel
that they like me
it's just part of the how to win friends
and influence strategy right and so most
of it i would say is like they're
talking the most i'm energetic
interjecting adding a little bit and
sometimes they'll have a back and forth
and they'll ask me about myself but it's
more like letting them talk
so i asked for coffee chats i said i set
a email out
a week two weeks and then a month and
then i stop i don't i don't ever send
more than three
right
i would say more than three uh i don't
really do cold intro so i said what
about cold intros i don't really do cold
interest i really like my coffee chats
to be people that i've met through the
other channels that we're talking about
i feel like when you do a cold outreach
and you haven't provided any value
that's just too much friction to get
started maybe if you can provide a lot
of value in that initial outreach than
it works but i think coffee chats are
more folks that you've already
interacted with
a lot of people love to do this
[Music]
this is this is this is how most this is
well not most that's how some people
start off their networking journey they
just blast out a bazillion things to a
bazillion different people and then they
get no they get nothing out of it
right networking should be thoughtful
you should take your time it's it's
about quality not quantity
always remember that networking is
always quality over quantity right
i rather have 10 people that know me
really well in tech and and dig me in or
into my vibe and like are on my side
then like a hundred people that i've
blasted on linkedin
right
and so
in the beginning
go slow this this is a slow process in
the beginning please please go slow in
the beginning don't like some people
like jump in the twitter threads and
they're like ah i'm adding everyone on
twitter i'm editing on everyone on
twitter you you like this guy and they
just add a bazillion people
they add a bazillion people on linkedin
they they never flop within these people
they don't ever get to know these people
and it's just a waste start slow
go slow build it up and you'll get there
all right uh here's a
a message that i would like to receive
if somebody was asking for a coffee chat
and don't be cheeky and send me an email
i'm not going to respond to you
uh hi leon it was a pleasure meeting you
last night the event was so well done
exciting meeting such a group of people
i hope you're enjoying a well-deserved
break after pulling it all together so
kind of that same line that we saw in
our normal follow-up email just thanking
them for their time um kind of boosting
the ego a little bit on like how the
event went
and then the the ask
as i mentioned last night i'm just
starting my engineering career and would
love to learn from successful people
such as yourself please let me know if
there might be a time you are free to
grab a virtual coffee over the next week
or two
before 9am or after 5pm tends to work
best for me but happy to accommodate
works for you thanks
there's a couple things that are at play
here
uh one
i am kind of boosting a little bit here
like successful people like yourself
okay i'm feeling good about myself
that's a good email all right
i gave them
kind of a range like in the next week or
two right so i'm talking about this
being somewhat sooner than rather than
later i gave them a suggested time range
like before nine or after five works but
i'm saying i'll accommodate what works
for you
right so it's it you you kind of butter
exactly butter them up a little bit
right we butt them up a little bit we
gave a good range we made our ask right
and then
right and then
you do your
your your your value
right you do your value
right
um if you saw this
is in the guardian it was fake right so
this is this is the coffee
chat ask sandwich
you thanked them you made your ask you
provided value thank
ask
value
bank
ask
value right
you don't have to use this exact like
wordage right i don't think you should
copy and paste what i have here
right like we don't want a thousand
people sending coffee chat requests with
the same text right
but it should give you a pretty common
place to start
thanking them making your ask and then
providing value right and so
if you can get that through in your
coffee chat requests i know they're
going to go well for you
is it weird to take notes during coffee
chats i think it is i i think some
people do it
um but i'm not there to like take notes
or be like like i don't know i'm there
to make a friend right
i don't ever pull out my notebook with
my friends
right like if we're chilling i'm not
like
oh
oh really right and i'm like right now
that's weird right so don't don't bring
a notebook don't be overly eager
remember you're trying to make a friend
like even if they're a more senior
engineer you're still trying to make
friends right and so
really treat it that way
use the sheet
right you have the sheet exclamation
point sheet and chat works as well
remember it's a place where you're gonna
put the event the date the name the
company position the spark like the
thing you remember about them their
email and then you follow up on all of
the patterns
right
you might have to come back and make a
copy later because there's a lot of you
on here
but yeah use the sheet
you're going to forget people you're
going to forget people and then you're
going to you're going to come you're
going to be 20 weeks later right you'll
be 20 weeks later wanting to apply to
that company and you're going to see oh
i talked to bob that works at that
company a couple months ago you're going
to remember that spark so you can use
that as part of your follow-up email hey
bob i really enjoyed our conversation
about rubix cubes a couple months ago i
actually bought one i've been trying to
learn it myself i saw that such and such
company has an opening would you feel
comfortable referring me
right you got to have it
don't record conversations though please
don't
how does the google alert work you just
go to google alerts you just go to
google.com alerts and you put in any
name or company or anything like that
and then it just sends you an email when
it finds something
all right
yeah the sheet's not going to work
because so many people jump on it you
got to come back after class
all right
questions before we take our top of the
hour break when we come back we're
getting into writing actual code
building real layouts i'm super excited
um questions before we take our break
about networking please
how do i not give off the impression of
trying to ask someone out when asking
for coffee
one first remove any idea of dating or
anything out of your brain when you're
doing networking it has no place don't
be creepy don't do that right
you keep it professional
right you keep it professional
you
make sure that it's very clear that
you're interested in career and their
career growth
right you're interested in
learning about how they got started as
an engineer and that's it
please don't ever
ask someone out after you have a coffee
chat please don't ask someone out when
you're going to network events these are
two completely separate ideas don't be
that person
um i really prefer to keep it
professional i'm a little old school i'm
never going to give you my phone number
we're going to communicate via email
right
i'm going to make it very clear
very clear that this is not
this is this is this is this is nothing
in that realm this is a business
relationship uh and so i i know i'm i'm
a little odd but i i think that i have
seen a lot of folks benefit from keeping
professional communication linkedin
messages and emails opposed to phone
numbers and texting and stuff like that
how do we get open source projects to
work on we're going to cover that as we
get further along
tips to make a coffee chat feel less
like an interview just be generally
interested in the person it's not an
interview it's hey
how'd you get started
right
right how did you get started what made
you interested in tech all right these
are like very open-ended questions that
you're really and in my emails i'm
always saying like hey i'm really
interested in how you got to where you
are right it's very clear that i'm
trying to learn about your experience as
an engineer and so i start with most of
my questions
uh how does this work in places that are
not the us same thing you find a city
that has meetups closer to you or you
find communities that are closer to you
or if you know you're in the
in a place that just doesn't have
anything then you have to do the harder
journey which is networking with remote
companies
find a list of 80 companies you can find
it very easily online 80 companies that
hire remotely figure out the people that
work there start figuring out what
events they go to what what what meetups
they go to and and meet with them
digitally
if you're thinking about being purely
remote and in a place that does not have
a locality that has engineers then
you're going to be doing the same
process but you're targeting people
remotely and remote events
it's a lot it's more difficult for sure
uh most events are remote right now some
are slowly starting to go back in person
but most are still remote they'll mostly
be like over zoom or some other platform
like that
how do we start conversations in virtual
meetups or coffee chats hello how are
you my name is leon
what what uh what are you excited about
today like what are you what brought you
here
do you if it's a javascript meetup oh
like are you excited about the talk
right
are you interested in the topic here for
the pizza right any of those things are
starters
but
we're gonna specifically have a night to
practice our opening
right
we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna have
a night where we all kind of
are talking live to each other where we
practice our kind of like how to start
conversations right i know that's a
that's um
a pretty big
barrier for a lot of folks and so we're
gonna do an icebreaker night exactly
where we practice our our openings how
we um
uh reach out to people right and so
we're gonna we're gonna practice all
those things
i have some of my students that
literally have
like index cards they carry that have
like all their basic questions that they
practice they go into the mirror they
look at themselves and they say hey i'm
leon nice to meet you right and so we're
going to practice these openings we're
going to practice these kind of
conversations and so that's why i say
this is the beginning we're going to go
slow
right we're going to go slow
go to the bathroom don't wait for me to
break why are you sitting there when you
have to go to the bathroom just go to
the bathroom that's so weird
uh
we're going to go slow you're going to
take your time
right you're going to take your time
we're going to build up to this don't
have something right don't have
something
like that makes this a blocker to you
we're gonna go slow we're gonna mess up
a lot we're gonna find what works and
we're gonna keep pushing
is there a dress code for coffee chats
no keep it casual
alrighty folks we're at the top of the
hour let's go ahead and take our five
minute break
if you're new around here we like to be
healthy
we like to make sure
that we get our stretches in we like to
move around
we like to make sure if we're able to
get up look outside the window let our
eyes focus on something
that is not the screen and we'll be back
in five
you
we have some
extra stuff that came in that i didn't
see on my dashboard so let me see if i
can find it real quick
are we talking about networking in the
context of coding
or that weird thing social yeah we're
talking about making connections so we
can get jobs
alrighty
about a minute left folks
where did you learn all your networking
hacks in the streets folks
most of the stuff i
teach is because i've probably already
[__] it up
and i've learned from that [__] up and
then i distill it so that you do not
have to [__] up in the ways that i have
[__] up
and then the beautiful thing about
having hundreds of students that have
helped get jobs is that i've seen them
[__] up
and so i learned the things that have
stopped them from [__] up then i
teach it to you
jordans or yeezys i've never been into
shoes
i only wear vegan shoes
i just like growing up
we didn't have like money for shoes so i
had my air walks from payless and i
thought they were the jam
and uh yeah that was it
all right folks
come on back come on back
chris lance
lance thank you chris
all right folks come on back come on
back let's get into this
boom
thank you for the update
on your bathroom endeavors glad it went
well
are you into zero drop shoes i am yeah
and the more comfortable
all right and the last thing we talked
about networking was the apps and we
talked about this image i just wanted to
throw this image back up just uh
just because
alrighty folks let's move on
golden rule
separation concerns is important why
yes organization
for ourselves
our teammates it helps our code stay
organized keeping our content on html
our style and our css and our behavioral
interaction in our javascript nice
talked about this idea of progressive
enhancement this idea that the core of
our content should be good html and if
we do that
we're doing enough
on top of that quark of content we just
add a little bit of a chocolatey coding
that is our presentation or our style it
might be a very very thin
thin candy coating of our javascript so
the core should be html
and then everything else is really extra
and the reason for that is because
we
are still in a time where most folks
lack access to high broadband internet
uh in the us in 2017 the statistic came
out that 35 of our rural residents did
not have access to broadband that was 22
million americans when you look outside
the u.s it gets even more real in terms
of folks still not having access to
high-speed broadband and guess what your
sites do not need to be that heavy
there's this really wonderful uh thing i
found on hacker news last time i was
teaching this class called the one
megabyte club so it's all sites whose
total size right their total size is
less than uh a megabyte and they just
keep a really cool list of it and there
are some big ones on here we saw
thelight.cnn.com
but there's also like npr now has a very
simple one so
text.mpr.org right has all of their
content all their main articles right in
just text format the site is way less
heavy it loads faster it does all the
things that you need to do
without having to
sacrifice
folks that do not have
high speed broadband
cool
the only thing that's coming out
recently is starlink i've been watching
a lot of videos on youtube of folks that
finally have starlink so starlink is a
elon musk company
where they put satellites and they
figured out a way to
make the connection to those satellites
since they're in low earth earth orbit
and not like all the way up in the
outside of the the like lower earth
orbit they can actually connect to them
and have really fast speeds and so
people have like really low ping and
over 100 megabytes per second so like
traditional faster than traditional
uh broadband that's like wired which is
pretty dope uh and for 99 a month and
their goal is like bring that cost down
we're talking about folks that are like
in the middle of nowhere in terms of
like access to broadband now being able
to get access to it and there's a bunch
of other companies that are competing as
well and so hopefully we'll see over the
next 10 years or so the proliferation of
broadband
in places that wouldn't actually run
cable to
nobody in minnesota has it and loves it
yeah i've seen a lot of people that are
really really happy with it
yeah i've watched quite a few um
quite a few videos and people like
setting it up and it seems to work
really well for them so maybe this
problem will slowly dwindle and
hopefully the cost gets reduced
significantly
all right where does css go folks
separate file exactly
uh if we are writing for html uh emails
we can put a little bit in inline if
we're writing uh code at amazon and we
need critical path css maybe put a
little in the head but for most of our
projects and the things we work on
separate file um
to make sure we adhere to separation of
concerns
all right our favorite game chat
what is this
oh no
gotcha
it's a value nice
about this
collector nice nice
and
how about this
beautiful
declaration so whole thing is a rule a
rule is broken down into selectors
declaration block decoration blocks are
broken down to declarations declarations
broken down into properties and values
wonderful
all right we know that stuff that comes
above can be overwritten that stuff that
comes below due to the cascade right due
to the cascade but the cascade only
comes into effect if the stuff below has
what
specificity exactly they have the same
or greater specificity
nice
alrighty uh we have a bunch of different
relationships we can use to target
specific elements
in our css so we have parent child
relationships and this right here is a
direct parent child right meaning that
the child comes directly within the
parent there's no other steps in between
which is a little bit different than a
parent child that is not direct here we
have a child of a paragraph that is
directly inside of an article but is
still
inside of a section so
no direct child if we were to go ahead
and put the carrot here
this just wouldn't work it would not
style hello twitch to be read
beautiful
and the other one we saw is a direct
sibling right where
we're trying to find a paragraph that
immediately comes after another
paragraph so in this case
hello youtube would be the thing that
comes red because it comes immediately
after another paragraph
alrighty
[Music]
alrighty ids and classes right ids and
classes so
here we go
ids can be used once
right once and only once
all right ids can be used once and only
once
once you give us something an id
right once you get something in id that
id cannot be reused right it cannot be
reused on any other element and once you
give
an id
all right one second
cool
alrighty once you give an id
right once you give an id
that id cannot be given to any other
element so i could not put zebra on
another paragraph i could not put it on
another section it is now no longer
allowed to be used and
right
this other element this element
paragraph cannot get another id
cool
classes are a little bit different
right classes are a little bit different
right class is a little bit different
each element can have multiple
classes
right each one might have multiple
classes so i could give it a class of
bob a class of rainbow a class of robot
and uh classes can be reused right so
not only can one element have it but
every element could eventually have that
class and then our classes can be given
as many as we want per element and so
you can wind up with an element that has
an id of zebra
then it has a class of bob and a class a
robot and a class of etc because ids are
unique classes are not so we target
multiple elements at the same time
nice
all right chat how many points of
specificity
well for the rule i should say how many
point specificity for the rule
are y'all referencing the amazing
uh
music duo
that we're all shouting in chat
oh the pointy specificity i see so we
have
one two tags
we have one class
and we have
one id
so 112 points of specificity
uh how many points of specificity do we
have on this one
we've seen these already should be a
quick
quick quick quick done
nice
we got one tag
we got three classes
and one id
131 points of specificity nice
this
one what do we got
the rule
well some of you got got it's okay some
of you got got
let's see
we have zero tags
we have
three classes
we have one id
and an important for a thousand so 1130
points of specificity nice
alrighty
chat
what is every single thing
in web development
everything every single thing in in that
we see here is a what
a box exactly every single thing we see
is a
box
all right it's a box remember
we have we're figuring out the box model
we calculate the box by including its
height
its padding and its border or its width
is padding and its border and then the
margin can push that box around it's the
bully it can push it around right so if
we're calculating the width we would use
the width of the element
plus its padding
plus its border and if we were trying to
do the height you take the height of the
element
its padding
and its border
padding increases the distance between
what
padding increases the distance in what
content and border exactly it'll
increase distance between the content
itself and its border wonderful look at
us go
all right so
we actually saw this
all this the exact code in the last
class but i want you to get i want you
to do it again i want you to see if you
can re do your active recall here i want
to see if you can do it again
we have the box model code if you're new
around here and you want all the starter
code that we're using
in you join our discord uh exclamation
point discord or leonwell.com discord
once you agree to the rules we have a
follow along materials channel go ahead
and download the materials from that
day's class from the following materials
channel and you'll have everything that
we need here you unzip it and we go to
work
so we have this box model practice uh
that has the same stuff that we did last
class so i'm putting four minutes on the
clock and i want you to go as fast you
can through solving this
see if you can recall everything make
sure you figure out how to get it done
and if you get done
right done in chat for me go for it
we don't get got
we go get
don't get got we go get exactly
welcome chalupa
glad you found us
i have three monitors and an ipad
and my laptop screen so
live
chase lessons are thorough they are
a lot of great details in there
thank you trader joe
would you recommend one widescreen or
multiple monitors um i love one wide
screen because i can have everything
next to it uh it's just that with
streaming i like to have separate
monitors
hey
milky doe thank you for the raid hope
you're doing well
thanks for stopping by
we got to get a raid coming your way
soon
thank you for stopping by i hope you're
doing well
gotta coordinate get you later one of
these days we can swing through with the
the whole crew
hope your stream went well
for uh folks that are that are stopping
by
we're working on some code here uh we're
working on the box model
and so that's what we see the timer for
folks are working through the box model
work
how was your stream what were you all up
to
hey i appreciate that monkey
yeah the shadow command's not working we
got to figure that out occ thank you for
trying to but
we'll do we got to figure it out let me
see if i can just copy
there we go i can just paste it into the
chat
definitely give them a follow please if
you haven't already
and we're definitely going to raid going
over there soon
all these folks coming in done
nice
hey different thank you for giving them
a sub
i went in hot with the dunzo's i see
y'all well
do i see you all let's go
doing good we're doing good
i appreciate that fizzy
and the one job please
all right let's go over this together
folks come on back come on back i don't
care how far you got you're doing okay
let's go over it together and we've
already seen this one so we should be
able to get through it quick
let me chill the music here
done finally on time i love it
congrats
well done everybody so many dones
get on y'all
all right let's take a look at this
together
got a confession to use the purple
background
all right please give the h1
some padding on three sides so we know
we can use
the shortcut right where we can have the
four individual sides for padding so we
can just go ahead and do padding
and we could just say if we wanted like
let's say zero on the top we could do
zero
and then 20 pixels
um
let's do 10 pixels and then
20 pixels there we go so what that would
do is it would put zero pixels on the
top
uh 20 pixels on the right
20 pixels on the right 10 pixels on the
bottom and 20 pixels on the left so now
we have
um
we have padding on all three sides right
uh except for the top cool margin on
just one side so it's going to put
margin on the top then remember we could
do the same thing we could do like
margin and then
do a value
for just giving one size we can also do
margin hyphen let's just put on the top
and we can do let's do 100 pixels on the
top great now we have padding on one
side
on on on three sides except for one and
we have margin only on one side love it
a light purple background with light
blue lettering what did you all do for
for the background lavender
lavender for light purple and then what
did y'all do for light blue
plum
good one
i did sky blue last time let's stick to
that that was fun cool
all right let's move on we're going
through this one a little bit faster if
you've seen it before if you're new
don't worry typically go much slower the
first round you can always catch up with
the vod in the past classes on youtube
all right please give the h2 significant
padding on the top and bottom cool so
let's go ahead and do our h2 and then
we're gonna do padding but we're gonna
use the two values so that it repeats so
we'll do
50px and then zero and so what this will
do is we'll do 50 on the top
zero on the right 50 on the bottom and
zero on the left
cool
a dark green border on the top and
bottom
we can do border
top we can do like three pixels
solid
dark
green and we can kind of do the same
thing for border bottom
where we just do three pixels
solid and then dark green again
beautiful
and anyone figure out a shortcut for
that
and then the last thing is an orange
background so let's just do background
orange
eagle screen
alrighty
please give the section a thick blue
border
all right section thick blue border
let's do 10 pixels border
let's do 10 pixels
solid
blue
let's give it a height of 300 pixels
and
a margin of 400 pixels or more on the
top so let's do margin
top and let's do
401 pixels
cool so we gave it a thick blue border
we gave it a height of 300 pixels and a
margin top of 400. nice
last one
let's go ahead and have all the spans
go ahead and do thin yellow borders so
we'll go ahead and do border
and we'll do
one pixel solid
yellow just to keep it thin
and then equal padding and margin on all
sides we can just use the shortcut where
we write it once
right
once right
and
so we're just going to say padding
and we'll say i don't know 10 pixels on
all sides right
and then margin will do the same let's
just do margin 10 pixels on all sides
and when you just have one it repeats on
all sides top right bottom and left
let's see how it looks
mama didn't raise no designer but it
satisfied the uh the requirements folks
it's beautiful
i'm gonna tear my eye
only a layout a mother would love
exactly
there we go cool let's move on
time for some layouts folks time for
some layouts
uh we have seen some layouts in the past
we've never done a full one
with all the things that we've learned
and so we're going to do that tonight
we're going to see some real good
layouts
for our layouts this week we are using
floats yes that is right
the floats the demons are back
leon
why did you show us the magic last class
why did you ruin it all right why did
you ruin it for us right we saw
we saw the magic
two lines no percentages no no weird
hacks it just worked why do you want me
to go
back yeah the no flex zone exactly no
flex zone right now we're all about
floats
can't tell you the number of one of my
students that join a company and the
first thing they get thrown into is
floats boats are way harder to figure
out which are way harder to do layout
with so your first layouts the layouts
that i'm asking you to do tonight and
the layouts i'm asking you to do for
homework this weekend are all floats no
flexbox no grid
roger hey thank you for your subs all
right
no
floats sorry all floats no flex this is
a no flex zone
no flex no i gotta play this song uh
we'll get dmc8 um yeah so all floats
floats no breaks exactly
remember floats
[Music]
remember floats are fighting to get into
a corner
if you float something to the left it's
trying to go up
my apple pencil keeps dying
if you try to float something to the
left it's gonna go up as much as it can
and to the right as much as it can
fighting to get in that corner if you
float it to the right it's gonna go up
as much as you can into the right ones
you can try to fight to get in that
corner and the beautiful thing when you
float a lot of elements they wind up
sitting next to each other and so that's
the hack of using floats for layout
all right
a warning
tonight
tonight i need you to dig deep
there's something that you might not
know about yourself
we all
possess
something deep inside of us sometimes it
comes out sometimes it doesn't but we
all have something inside of us
we all have a baddie inside of us we all
have the capability to be a baddie
sometimes we turn it on sometimes we
don't
so what i need you all to do
is to dig deep
and find your inner body
all right because tonight
i'm going to write some bad code folks
i'm going to write some some some
terrible code we're we're getting rid of
the old saying and we're embracing our
inner body
and uh we're gonna write some bad code
all right so be a baddie write bad code
now
why do i ask my students to write bad
code let me tell you
the biggest thing
the biggest barrier like you talk about
any barrier the biggest barrier my
students have faced and the 10 years of
me doing this
right
is the idea of things needing to be
perfect
the idea of things needing to be best
practice
the idea of things needing to like look
coherent
no
not tonight
not this week
maybe not even this month
this night this month we're embracing
our inner body and we're writing bad
code
perfection is for closers we want to get
wins on the board we want to get layouts
on the page we don't want to be
that student that spends three hours on
a header don't be don't be that student
be a baddie write bad code right dig
deep
every single cohort i've ever run the
biggest mistake folks make
right
is
trying to get things pixel perfect right
out the gate they're spending an hour
just trying to get something a little
bit more to the right instead of to the
left instead of getting the whole layout
done
right
no client
no manager
wants to see your amazing header
you can't go to a client and say hey i
got a header but nothing else you can go
to a client oh here's the whole layout
we got to clean some stuff up we got to
make the header a little bit better but
you can see the whole page is here right
i just need the weekend
so be a baddie write bad code
all right
and so just as a reminder and just uh so
i don't get as many twitter messages as
i know i'm about to get some twitter
messages guess what come here
i'm gonna write back code i'm telling
all my students to write bad code and if
you send me a twitter message here's
your reply
get in
[__] you
that's all i got to say
that's it i don't care get the [__] out
all right get out bye
and we say bye bye bro get out
got him exactly
this is tonight's not about perfection
tonight we embrace our inner body we
write bad code i'm gonna bring up just a
reminder so that none of y'all forget
writing bad code here we go
it's a disclaimer
the disclaimer
and we're going to leave tina up there
too
there we go
just so you know i'm a baddie i write
bad code
that's it i'm that's my twitter bio
i'm changing it we're gonna do it live
i'm a baddie and i write bad code
watch me
all right so let's write some bad code
um
and uh we're gonna we're gonna embrace
that this evening all right we're gonna
embrace it this evening all right first
layout we're gonna do
is techcrunch
when i
look at techcrunch i see three quick
things and that's what i'm going to go
with tonight that's about being quick
it's about being fearless about being a
baddie and not caring about the haters
on twitter
we just don't care
i'm going to leave you on red
you're a hater ain't got time for you
want to keep it moving
keep sending me those dms keep giving me
the engagement thank you
you ain't getting a response
i'm a baddie i write bad code hold on
all right i just needed it i need it in
my head i need it in my head all right
here we go
i'm looking at this this could be a lot
of stuff right this could be
this could be uh let's see this could be
uh
it could be a header it could be a nav
i'm just gonna say enough for now screw
it i'm a bad here i write bad code
all right
all right got a nav
i'm gonna call this a main
a main
and then
i'm gonna throw this and then aside
and maybe the aside will have like a
list right maybe the aside will have
like a list
but that's where i'm going to start
bad coders club
i'm going to start with a nav a main
and an aside that's it i'm writing bad
code i don't care
so in our starter code for today
uh we have these three spots for layouts
so i'm going to start
with the layout one which is just the
template it has the viewport in it that
we talked about last class
and uh i'm gonna go ahead and use
a nav
and then i'm gonna have my main
and then i'm gonna have my aside
a lot of y'all asking leon what about
this what about that i don't care i'm
writing bad code i'm trying to get a
layout on the board i'm trying to get
some wins i'm trying to get some w's it
just doesn't matter it never matters it
just doesn't matter get some wins and
then come back and nitpick is it main or
section it's a main for now i'm a baddie
writing bad code
look at look in the corner
i'm embracing my entertina
come on now
all right let's look inside of here all
right we got like an image
we got like an anchor tag for the login
and we got like we got maybe like a ul
with a bunch of stuff in here so i'm
gonna go ahead and do that
inside my nav
i'm gonna have an image
and it's gonna give it a placeholder for
now and i'm just gonna say
techcrunch
logo
and then
in the main we had like an anchor tag
that was that login right
uh let's put a placeholder for now and
it's gonna say log in
and then after that it kind of seemed
like a like a list to me
like a list of a bunch of like anchor
tags probably
and so we'll put a placeholder in and
then what was the first one
search that would actually be a form but
we'll just say search for now startups
search startups videos
search
i'm going to copy this
i'm gonna put startups in here
and then i'm gonna put videos in here
cool
and it doesn't be perfect we'll come
back to it later right cool
main is a thing yes it is a tag yes you
can look up on the mdn if you don't know
what main is one two three four five six
seven eight nine so there's like nine of
them i'm just going to copy this three
times
i'll copy it and paste it two more times
um
boom
ovar
boom all right so we got we got like
nine of them there that's good enough
for me
you're not coding along we're we're
you're watching we're talking we're
discussing please don't frantically um
uh feel like you have to code along with
this
now this this is too much just too much
pay attention
ask good questions
uh and
listen to the decisions i'm making here
don't be like frantically trying to get
down too much
i mean hey
you're a baddie go ahead and do you
that's all i gotta say you know don't
let me get in your way
all right
so we got our nav let's look at our main
here
what china's fintech market can teach
the world all right i'm gonna go here
maine that seems like i don't know we'll
call that an h1 and so what
china's
fintech
market
can teach the world
the world beautiful
and then underneath that there's like a
paragraph
and i i'm not going to type out a full
paragraph i'm going to use lorem ipsum
right
and we use lorem ipsum and so it's going
to keep the first sentence from that
lorem ipsum
so if you're in vs code all you got to
do is type in lorem and hit tab and
it'll give you like this filler code
right so lorem ipsum is just filler code
that devs use when they don't want to
type all this stuff out
when i'm doing my
my bad code i like to keep some of the
text there just so i don't have a lot of
work when i go back right but um that's
what i'm using there so i didn't type
all that out really fast i just used
lorem and hit tab and it gave me all the
filler text
cool and then there's like a span with
somebody's name
i'm gonna say span
and somebody's name
there you go
beautiful so that's our we had our nav
on the left our main with all the stuff
inside of it and then our side
and if we look at our side i'm going to
actually say this is like a list
right i'm going to say this like a list
i'm going to say it's like a list of of
maybe just like
h
twos or threes
and a span that's what i'm gonna do
in my side
ul
uh and then each of those blocks gonna
be lis and
what's the first one
ah who cares i'm just gonna put a
sentence of lorem
there we go
and copy that lorem there
so
uh inside each of those lis i'll
probably put like an h2
it'll have that stuff in it and then i
think there's like a span after
and that span had somebody's name
cool
and so then i'm going to go ahead and
take
there's four of them so it's gonna have
four of the allies
beautiful
fintech is financial technology
cool so we have our nav and all the
stuff there
our main which had all the stuff that
was in the main area and the aside which
was kind of like that sidebar with uh
the four li's inside of it
cool
let's pull up our css
and uh let's open this in the browser to
see where we're at
all right so right now
it's not it's not too bad
not too bad right like it the the core
is there we're following what chat this
is not too bad we're following what this
isn't too wild
enhancement right for fallen progressive
enhancement like our html is the core
thing here people could come
they could come to this site they could
see the they could get to the links they
needed to go to they could find the main
the main content they could see our
content that's in the assign that get
kind of works but we're going to take a
little bit further we want to get that
layout done we want to get that layout
done right so if we go back and look
this layout is really three columns
right so i'm going to say the nav is
what
and maybe like 50 for the main
and
i don't know 40 for the aside
so we can do like 10 50 40. remember
it's a no-flex zone
this is uh floats for tonight and this
weekend
all right
let's go in here
let's get into our layout area
and let's go ahead and say
nav
nav main and aside
and let's float them all to the left
and we're just going to start off the
main i'm sorry the nav being i don't
know the 10 right so we'll just we'll
just redo the main and the aside but
we'll keep the width of ten percent
on the main on the nav i mean and we'll
come down here to main
and we'll go ahead and give that a width
of
and then we'll come down to the aside
and we'll give that a width of
40 percent
cool
i feel i feel pretty comfortable with
this to start
and let's go ahead and go back to our
site
and refresh
i mean
come on now
i'm a baddie and i write bad code that's
all i gotta say
check out my twitter profile
first try
and so this is what i'm talking about
right
that took us what a couple minutes to
get a decent layout to get the core
stuff here
right to get the core stuff here right
like
we could have spent an hour
agonizing
an hour agonizing over just this nav
here
right but now at least you have the core
layout and do we have to go back and
make lots of changes do lots of things
yes but the core is here we got we got
through the block of getting just
something on the board right we got a
win we got a w we can go back and
refactor
right we can go back and refactor but
for for starting out this is what you
want get rid of the fear
right get rid of the fear
get rid of all the nagging things that
are in back your heads and you have to
write good code no we're baddies we
write bad code
right the sooner you embrace that the
sooner you give up on perfection and you
just try
and write
code of any shape or form
your world changes
free yourself
write bad code
and in the the process of writing bad
code you'll find things that work
you'll find things that don't work
you'll find things that you want to
change that you that you might want to
update and you'll get better at it but
you have to start
don't let perfection stop you from
getting a dub on the board this is a dub
this is what i'm talking about this is a
layout the core bits are here yes we
have to play with sizes
heights
with we have to move stuff around but
the core
is here
get here first
right
be tina
alright next one
khan academy all right let's look at
this
when i look at khan academy
chat what do you what do you say this is
what do we think that is chat
it's a header yeah it's a header and
probably like a nav like you're saying
like a nav inside the header
and then that nav is probably like i'm
just gonna say an anchor tag for now yes
i know it's a drop down but i'm writing
bad code i'll probably say like an
anchor tag there
um then definitely like a form
maybe an h2
because that could be a logo but it
could also just be text i'm not sure if
they have like their own font or
something
um so i'm just going to say an h2 for
now
and then
a ulis anchor tags that we kind of just
saw in techcrunch right
and then when we look down here
this is probably like main
and then mains probably split up into
two sections
right and this section probably is like
an image and then this actually has like
an h1 a paragraph and then i don't like
writing buttons i use anchor tags so
maybe like four anchor tags that are
pretending to be buttons
i think that would get us
pretty much all the way
to our
simple khan academy site here
so that's what i'm going to try let's
try that
i'm going to go to layout 2 that i have
here
and close this one out of course you'll
always get my my solutions and things
why do i hate buttons because they're
weird
and i'm a baddie
i write bad code
i don't like buttons
we had some words i don't like them so i
ain't going to use them
alrighty
let's do our header
inside our header we said that we had a
nav
and then inside that nav we said we had
an anchor tag right off the off the rip
here and that was courses
i'm going to put the octothorpe as a
placeholder all right just means that we
don't have the link yet and it's going
to be courses
after that we had a form
and whoop
and that form will have an input in it
and that input will be typed text
yeah i'm fine with that for now
um
after the form what do we have here we
have like our h2
h2
and i'm gonna put con
academy there you go i spelled it right
this time let's go
[Music]
win thank you leon you're on fire
tonight keep doing you
all right so we got khan academy
uh and then we have like our our list of
links on the end so
ul
li
anchor tag
put our placeholder of the octothorpe
and then it was donate
and then what were the other two
login sign up so let's just copy this
login
i know
cool
alrighty
uh
andy
art thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
all right
so that's our header
let's see let's see our header
off the off the rip here let's see
not bad it's just not sitting across
right like it's it's
it's readable
um we just want everything sitting next
to each other right
it's when everything's sitting next to
each other so let's go
and write some css here
and we got our box sizing that looks all
good let's come up here we already got
our header
and so
i want every single thing
inside the header
to sit next to each other
so i can just i could just float
everything that's inside the header
um
if we look all of our stuff is
technically inside the nav
so let's go do
header
nav and how could i select everything
let's do astric
all right let's do an asterisk and
people are saying display in line inline
block we haven't talked that we said
floats only it's a no flex zone i'm
going i'm just going to do what i know
how to do right even if maybe i didn't
know about that stuff yet right who
cares i'm writing bad code folks it's
bad code i'm gonna do it how i know it
it's gonna look good
all right let's go ahead and refresh
not bad right
not bad
uh it's just not like there's no like
space in between stuff
all right like it's just in a up
so let's let's give it some
give everything some whiffs and maybe
some margins so they're not sitting next
to each other right
um
let's give everything
a whiff
i could do like with
10 percent
and then let's do some margin
um
let's do like one percent to bring it
off the top uh let's do zero for now and
then five percent in between and this is
just me spitballing right i have no idea
if any of this will work
not bad
i miss flexbox so much right now exactly
that's why we're doing what we do
so we're doing what we do
nice this is uh
this is uh this is not
completely wild like it seems like our
um
our form is not taking up all the space
the form is all the space but if we look
the input's only taking up oh
because the input's at 10
right we said everything was ten percent
and so the form is not taking up um
everything
maybe if we did something funky maybe if
we did this real quick
right if we do that
right if we do that then it's just the
the top level stuff
right it would be just the top level
stuff it would be like just the the
anchor tag the form the h2 and the ul
would be that percent
right it wouldn't go any deeper
to apply
that that percent and stuff like that to
the sub elements so now we can see like
the the anchor tags are no longer
sitting next to each other
right
but the
form is like the full size now
right
okay
so let's let's think about um
let's think about those forms those lies
maybe maybe we can target those lis
let's do nav
i'm gonna i'm gonna do direct so i don't
worry about anything like further down
let's um can we float them to the left
and can we get them like a certain size
let's just flip them first let's see if
that does anything
did nothing
all right if we inspect
not sitting next to each other
maybe they don't have enough room though
maybe they don't have enough room like
see how that see how it's like taking up
that full width
maybe maybe because they don't have a
width they can't sit next to each other
right
or right now we don't have enough
specificity either right look we're
saying header nav
asterisk we don't have enough
specificity either so if we did like
header
nav li
we came back
cool now we know we at least have enough
specificity but let's try giving them a
width i'm curious
let's do 33 percent
because there's three of them
oh no [__] that i don't know what that
is
cool
why didn't it work
tell me
why is it not working
can what would nav right carrot i mean
is that doable
look look at the look at the index.html
ul
li
right so if it's a direct child there
there exists no nav
direct child li they're all inside of
the ul that direct child just wouldn't
work
right so that's actually working against
us
we got to get rid of that direct child
there we go
okay
got him
sitting next to each other looking good
i don't like
the dots though
how can i get rid of the dots
list style none let's try that
cool
boom dots are gone
i see the yankee cards are working for a
lot of y'all exactly well i see it too
all right so why did i put list style
none up here
and not on the lis
where does that list style have to go
what does it have to go on
yeah it has to go on the ul has to go on
the ul
all right we got we got the header
almost there like um
uh
i feel pretty good with this header so
far
i think most of our stuff is here
let's go ahead and take a look like
that's that's there
come on now that's there
yeah we gotta add some some height maybe
a little bit thickness but it's it's the
layout like it's almost like come on now
you can't even tell the difference folks
look at that night and day same thing
all right let's go ahead and um let's
finish up this layout and then we'll
take our break
finish up with this layout we'll take
our break
uh we have our main with two sections
inside of it and so if we have two
sections we want to sit next to each
other what should we do we want th we
want the two sections to sit next to
each other
what will we do
float left and give them a width right
50 percent
it's percent
float left
beautiful that'll get them sitting next
to each other and i'm just going to give
them some height
i know right now like i wouldn't
necessarily always do this but i'm just
i'm being a baddie i'm gonna give them
some height i don't know 600 pixels just
just uh just so that the container opens
a little bit i might put some borders on
them i'm not sure all right so we got
that
uh if we look at our if we let's just
let's just save that and open it real
quick
let's just see
cool oh we didn't even do that did we
even do the main yet let's see oh we
didn't do the main yet so let's do the
main
and then we're gonna have like a section
and another section
and in this first section we just have
our image
um
what is it
what is the image
kids playing on computers
all right kids playing in computers
and all i'm gonna do
is i'm gonna just
screenshot it
don't i don't have the image so i'm just
going to screenshot it
screenshotting is different on each each
computer that you're on on macs it's
just command shift
or
joint
all right so i got that
i got that screenshot
uh i am going to take it from my desktop
so i'm going to it's on my desktop
enable it con
and i'm going to bring that
con image i'm just going to copy it
and i'm going to go to my
my class folder from today i know you're
not seeing this
um
but i promise you that's what i'm doing
i'm gonna go to layout two
i'm just gonna drop the photo in there
all right so here's my layout two folder
uh what i'm going to do and i'll show it
to you
you find it i know it's a little tiny to
see
but i have a con photo that i just
screenshot it
i'm just going to drag it into my layout
2 folder
right
we're hacking nfts exactly this is how
you hack nfts right so we dragged our
con folder in here so that means for our
image
we can we can now use it you can
actually see the image right here now in
my little tree view
i'm gonna call it
and it's a png so png because it was a
screenshot and it's kids learning would
be the alt
cool
we got our image
and then
this other section had some text in it
what the text say for every student
every classroom real results
so that's an h1
for every
student
every
classroom
real
results boom okay
and underneath that was a paragraph and
then some buttons
let's go and do our paragraph
let's do another
lorem too much i wish they could just
like give us like i want lorem half
there you go we got our lorem
and then we have the like the anchor
tags underneath of it and so i'm just
going to go ahead and put just
i'm not even going to put them in a list
i'm just going to be a real baddie right
now
and just put anchor tags
and i think i think it was like what was
it learn
learners
okay
and i'm gonna put four of them
that's it
that's it folks
dust it
we have our main 50
height floating left so they should be
sitting next to each other
let's take a look
refresh
not bad
not bad folks
tina would be proud indeed
uh let's go ahead and
let's let's let's let's clean this up
just a little just tiny bit tiny bit
tiny bit and we'll take our break
give it a i don't know
width of 50
let's see
there we go
and i just want to bring it down just a
little bit
i want to bring it down just a
tad bit tad bit
and so
let's go ahead
let's say on
the main
and let's do a little specific here
section
h1
and
the main
section
image
let's go ahead and just give them a
margin top
of 200 pixels
just to push them down a little bit
first try
i whenever i do this i always think of
it i even queued it up um one of my
favorite memes
spicy meme og meme if you know this meme
we could be friends
uh whenever i do this i always reminds
me of the anybody ever see leprechauns
say yeah can we remember that meme i
think i pulled it up already here we go
everybody see leprechauns say yeah
that's what that provides me of
uh this is a this is a classic og meme
everybody see the leprechauns say yeah
yeah that's what i feel like all right
folks
come on look at us go
look where we were this is this is three
weeks in folks
this is this is we're dipping our toes
into the fourth week
look at us go building layouts
look at us being bad he's writing bad
code let's go
ah
that's what i'm talking about
crunch where you at
all right all right folks
when we come back
we're going to take a look at the bbc
all right so come on back five minutes
on the clock if you're new around here
like to be healthy if you're able please
get up if you're able let your eyes
focus on something else that's not your
screen
i'll be
getting my tina twerk on
off screen
you all want to see that you know what
you got to do
million channel points
only fans could be yours
alright folks take a break
well deserved well deserved and i will
see you all here in five minutes we're
gonna move into the bbc
i took a peep at the css while we're
moving on
huh i was gonna be late huh
got got
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right now
i'm moving through this at a pretty good
clip
but what i hope you're realizing
is that this is how i start all my
projects
you'll think i'm i'm joking but this is
how i start
is how i start
i make sure
that i worry about getting most of it
there
i can always come back and make it
better
do not let perfection get in the way of
you getting something started no one
will care no one will ever see this it
just doesn't matter specifically when
you're starting out you want to just try
and get into a lot of these layouts
early on make mistakes and you carry
stuff through each one
i switch between my layouts too so like
your homework is going to be in doing
these right your homework is going to be
to like do these on your own right and
for me sometimes i get hung up and i'm
like i have no idea how i'm going to
tackle this nav
so what i'll do is i'll move to
something else right and then i'll come
back
all right
if hey thank you for the posture check
you're doing good today
thank you
you mean the right mindset right but
i'll jump around too like if if if i'm
starting to bang my head against the
keyboard it's probably time to take a
break it's probably time to get up and
diffuse and maybe even might be time to
move on to a different project and then
come back at the other one with fresh
eyes
pomodoro is a lifesaver as you're
working through this don't just use
pomodoro for like studying use pomodoro
for your work as well right
i say the the rule is 20 minutes
if you're spending more than 20 minutes
on something and you haven't gotten
anywhere it's time to move on it's time
to diffuse
it's time to take a break it's a time to
move on to something else and then come
back right but with these layouts
i need you to be a baddie write bad code
it doesn't matter get rid of this idea
of pixel perfect get rid of this idea of
perfection that's going to come way
later down the line because as you
stumble through these layouts right as
you stumble through these layouts
you're going to pick up little things
each time wait i i didn't really
understand how to like get space between
stuff right or i didn't really know how
to push stuff down but you you push
yourself you use the mdn you asked for
help
you asked
you asked for help
i loved when we we rated splashly i
think it was on tuesday
and the thing they said that the biggest
thing that they wish they had done
differently
right is ask for help
now
don't be the person that says look at my
code nobody wants to look at your code
be the person that says i have this very
specific issue
how do i fix it how do i do it this is
the thing here's the screenshot here's
the code how do i do that thing right
don't post can anybody look at my code
nobody wants to look at your code
but people want to help you right so
there's something that you don't
understand that you don't know ask the
question give the screenshot give the
code how do i break it down how do i do
it people want to help with that and the
biggest thing the biggest thing
early career engineers get wrong is they
don't ask questions they they they give
up in silence that's the worst thing
that could ever happen is you give up in
silence you say this is too tough it's
too mentally draining i don't want to do
it and you just click out of everything
we never hear from you again
go out with a bang
go out with a none of this makes sense
can anybody help me i don't get what's
going on don't give up
be a baddie write bad code ask for help
right
and and the thing too is that i i really
need it to sink in is that you take the
best engineer in the world and they've
never
right they've never written html and css
they're going to do exactly what we're
doing tonight
they're going to learn they're going to
make mistakes they're going to break
stuff they're going to write bad code
and in that process find stuff that
works and carry that to the next one and
carry that to the next one and then they
come back and redo them over again and
then they delete everything the best
thing you can do
the best thing you can do i'm not gonna
do it because i need to share this with
you after class the best thing you do is
control a boom that's the best thing you
could do and then do it again
i was one that was bigly i'm sorry
best thing you can do
control a boom
delete it do it again
right and then and then you you finally
put it in again and then boop gone do it
again
right get that repetition in
right
and don't put it on your brain that it
has to make sense you could have sat
here this entire time and not understand
one blessed thing that i just did across
these two layouts it just doesn't matter
we're writing bad code
all right come back
watch the vod
slow it down speed it up do what you got
to do
look through the things that i talked
about that i made my decisions on right
as soon as this class is over the vod
comes up pull it down look at what i
look at the decisions i made think about
your decisions right what would you have
done differently how would you have done
it how would you written even worse code
than me
right
cool
usa
all right
next one we're going to do the bbc folks
also go ahead and open up layout 3 here
can we use classes on this one uh yeah
you can use classes if you want um i'm
kind of i'm just doing it without them
because i think it's fun
uh to try it without them but yeah
classes definitely would have helped um
we would have ran in we wanted to run
into like that weird specificity thing
you know
let's take a look at this
layout here we have the bbc image
and what i'm going to kind of try and
break this down into
is kind of like the big pieces that we
see here i'm going to try and carry
some of the stuff that we've seen in the
other layouts into this one and see if
it see if it'll help us so
i'm kind of seeing like three
big areas
i've seen three big areas here so
i'm seeing a
header
i'm seeing
a section
and i'm seeing another section
and so there's like the three big areas
i'm seeing as i'm writing my bad code
and i think the header is kind of
similar to what we've seen already
but this section down here
it has like two sections inside of it
this one's pretty straightforward like
h1 paragraph span this one's a little
bit tricky this section has
four sections inside of it and each one
of those sections has
like an h2 and a span
and then this one down here is like
three sections inside of it and each one
of those sections has like an image
maybe like an h3
a paragraph and a span and so then that
will just be copied
three times to b3
yeah
and so that's kind of how i'm
visualizing this layout uh when i'm
looking inside the header
i see an image
i'm just gonna say an anchor tag for now
and then
i'm well this is all in a nav too then
like a ul with a bunch of li's
and then maybe like a form at the end
right so nothing too wild a lot of the
stuff we've kind of already seen and so
let's get into it let's write some bad
code
and see what we come up with
start with the html
i'd like to start with my html
all right so let's go ahead and do our
header
and then inside of our header i think it
was pretty clear that we have a nav like
all that stuff at the top is
navigational content
um it was
it was
stuff that's gonna be the top of every
single page i'm gonna say nav
and then inside of my nav
let's see what we started off with an
image and then like an anchor tag so
let's just do an image
and i'm just going to put a placeholder
for now and we say this would be a bbc
logo
and then an anchor tag and that anchor
tag just said
sign in
i'm british of them
and then
after that we have a ul with
one two three four five six seven eight
nine
nine lis again what's up with these navs
having nine
uh so ul
a lie
anchor tag let's just put a placeholder
and then news
and we're gonna need eight more of these
john's
one two three one two three
let's do one more
there we go
and then the last thing we saw in this
header was like the form there's almost
like this like weird drop down but who
cares uh
form and we'll put an input in here
and i think it'll be good for now
and let's just start trying to get
let's just trying to get the uh
let's just try to get the
nav here yeah i think let's just get
this header going if we look at this
header
this header is like has some height to
it it's all black
i think we can and like the text is all
white so maybe we start there with our
css and then we'll come and do like the
main and everything else
now
i i kind of like to go by like big
section by big section so you kind of
saw me
say that there's like three areas i saw
the header
the that other section and then the
other section so kind of work through
them in those three areas i would
probably do the header
right and i would do the section there
and do the section and and that's how i
would go i'd do one and then the css the
other than the css
beautiful
all right so header
let's give it a height of like 100
pixels
and let's go ahead and give it a
background of black
and i'm going to give it a color of
white now the reason i'm giving a color
of white
is because i want the
the um
the like the so there's something called
like inheritance where some elements can
inherit their color from the parent and
so in case there's any inheritance i
just wanted to grab the white from there
i might have to use white somewhere else
but like that's that's why i'm doing it
cool
let's kind of do the same trick that we
did before if we want all the nav
elements to sit next to each other
right
right you want all the nat all the
elements in the nav next to each other
what could we do
i've already seen it
yeah so let's go ahead and do
nav everything
nav everything let's make it float left
i said it'll get everything in the nav
floating to the left um let's make sure
that it's a width maybe we'll just start
off i like i always pretty much always
start off with 10 when i'm being a
baddie you know
just to start off let's also just do
color while we're here just in case
there's some inheritance
um
and then you might have ran into the
reading of like
this idea of some things like wanting to
sit next to each other or not sit next
to each other um
and sometimes it comes down to like this
display property we're going to talk
more about display properties but for
now i'm just going to do display block
just so that everything is treated as a
block like we have to worry about like
inline or anything like that
everything's just a block yeah
cool
all right so we've got our nav
everything's floated percentage should
be colored
um let's see where we're at
what about making them this or making
them that i don't care i'm writing bad
code there's not there's no there's no
right or wrong here it's just whatever
comes in the brain and goes out the
other side there's so many things that
you could worry about that you could do
that's better that's more appropriate
that would make your life easier but i'm
a baddie right and bad code i don't care
i just want to get a win on the board
i'll come back and make everything in
line i'll come back and get make
everything flexbox i just don't care i'm
a baddie writing bad code let me do me
it's not bad
not bad
we got stuff kind of sitting next to
each other kind of running into that
same issue that we saw before
where they're kind of like they the they
all inside are not getting enough with
and that the sec like the actual element
itself
is uh not getting with
and so let's um
let's make sure things have the
appropriate width we don't want the ul
like right now
right now this ul is 10
so there's no way
right there's no way that we're going to
get all those li sitting next to each
other if they only have 10 percent so i
think that's one of the things we have
to fix in our cascade i think we have to
fix that ul to be like bigger maybe like
50 60 percent so i'm going to do nav ul
and i'm going to give it a width of 50
let's save that let's come back and see
what we're at
let's go
okay
look at me now
let's do the same thing then for the
form while we're here right
that form is just if we highlight if we
click inspect
we can see that the form
is taking its ten percent but the input
is not the input's like not doing its
full width
um so let's make the input full width
nav form input
and let's just make it a width 100.
let's see
oh
look at me now
shazam exactly
all right i'm feeling pretty good about
this um
i don't think there's anything else i
really want to change here except maybe
like making this a little bit smaller
so maybe like instead of a hundred
actually let's use the inspector here
let's right-click inspect
and then on the header
i'm just going to come down to the
header
where it says a height of 100 pixels and
once you click on that 100 pixels you
can use your arrow keys
and so i'm just going to hold down the
arrow key until
i think it looks good
55 looks good to me
55 is where i'd probably want it to stay
so i just used the inspector right click
inspect header and then went to the
height and then held down the arrow key
until it looked good 55 pixels let's
come back
and make this 55 pixels
cool
i'm feeling pretty happy with that
let's compare it to the image bbc image
yeah we don't have the logo in there yet
but
the actual kind of like
layout of it that's pretty clean all
right i'm happy with that
all right so we talked about having that
header that we did and then we talked
about having two sections
let's get both of those sections on the
board here
section
cool
and then in this section let's do the
bottom section first the bottom section
i think is a little bit easier because
it's just sections
and then inside of each of those
sections was let's look at the image
an image
an h3 a paragraph and a span image h3
paragraph span
the placeholder for now
and we'll just put um
joe
byron there we go joe byron
and
after the image was in h3
i didn't and i was going to use ipsum
that's too much
there we go
boom
and then after that was a paragraph
right
that's a paragraph
and
let's get a little bit more text than
the h3 was
and then after the paragraph was a span
and
it was u.s election
u.s
election
2020.
cool and then the cool thing is that
this was just like three of these were
exactly the same i think there was like
an h2 here too i think that was like
htsn news right
so i'm gonna do is i'm gonna take this
section we outside we outside baby we
outside we ain't outside i'm inside i
wish i was outside
leon doesn't listen to us plebs not
right now i'm a baddie i'm writing bad
code i'm in my zone
all right so that looks that looks
decent right
um so if we have these sections what do
we want to do we want to make these how
are we gonna how we're gonna get these
next to each other what are we gonna do
chat
how could i get those next to each other
bottom left
hold them up
put them up
with 33 percent
repeating of course
all right and this section is
we could give it like an idea or class
but we could also do like header
um
plus section plus section
i'm actually going to make this a main
just to see some other tags actually
this is a main
i like this being a main not a section
like that's the main area of the site
right like if we look at this image i'm
going to call this a main and out of a
section and so what we could do
is we could do main plus section
it would give us only this section and
we could do the sections inside of it
yeah that's that's the that's the move
that's the move
all right let's go back our css
we can do
uh main
plus section
and then the sections that are
immediately inside of that section
and we're going to give them a width of
33.33 percent repeating of course
and then we're going to give them
uh the floats
of the lefts
cool
yeah because if we look at our html
main plus section we grab that
containing section and we're targeting
all the sections inside of it
see what we got
let's see
what we got
oh
looking real good
looking real good that's all i gotta say
looking real
real good
all right
i think we saved the more difficult for
the
for the end
right we didn't we didn't do the main
yet so let's go back and fill in our
main look at the image real quick
the main i'm really seeing as two i see
two sections inside the main
one
two
and then this section has four sections
inside of it
so let's try that
let's go back to our main
what does the a stand for in your cup
uh it's the beginning of my wife's name
yeah
uh for for one of our wedding gifts they
gave us matching mugs with the first
letter of each of our
our names
so yeah i stole her cup he caught me i
got got
it was clean what can i say
all right so in our main
we had that i'm gonna say like an h2 for
now that was like welcome to the bbc
news hour
all right then we had our section
and then we had our section
roll up like section
if you if you can tell me where roll up
like section comes from like that's
that's like next level you being in my
head
i'll take i'll take a quick gander at
chat real quick
all right just making sure
close wolfen you're close it is grime it
is a grime lyric
from harlem spartans hey briefcase there
we go
i love it
i hope you watched past classes and got
it from there if not like we're on the
same level good job briefcase
it's kind of one of the most iconic
songs in grime music
when the gang pull up are you gonna back
your brethren
top bars
all right so we got this section
we know there's an image in it
and i don't know what the image was
what's our placeholder
um
two
people
there we go
and then there was a
like a i think like uh i think we might
call that our h1
peace deal
each one
historic
piece
deal
then after it was a paragraph that we'll
just use some lorem for
and then
there's like a span too yeah middle east
cool
that i think that handles our first
section that's on the left
and then the section on the right was a
little bit more tricky because there's
four sections
that have
uh americans go home
canada so we're just gonna say that's
like an h
h2 h3
let's just say h2 for now uh h3 h3 and
then this span
and then
span
and i think it was just like what was
that say us canada
canada
out drake
that's aubrey to me
lamborghini whip
green green doors
or is it
lamborghini doors on my green green whip
i'll walk i'll throw them out there i'll
see if you're in my head or not
where's that come from
all gas baby exactly channel five
all right so there's four of them so i'm
just gonna copy this and paste it two
more times
cool
so we have our section one two three
four
we got our main one up here
so i think where we'll start
is i want these two sections these two
big ones to sit next to each other so if
i want those if i want those two
sections to sit next to each other i'm
just going to do 50 width and float them
exactly i see some people in chat saying
that already so let's go here
we'll say main and we'll be careful
because there are subsections so we'll
use the direct child
right
and we'll go ahead and do with
50 percent
and then
um
i think we're going to give them a
height
because there's stuff inside and like we
could figure it out but i'm like i'm
about to write in bad code let's give a
width of 500 pixels just keep it keep it
channel five you know
55th
and then
put them left
there we go i'm a baddie writing bad
code
all right
so that should get them sitting next to
each other let's see where we're at with
that
cool
we're almost there we're almost there
we're almost there
all right the last big piece is this
like four over here
so let's do that let's just finish that
up
um
that's just going to be main
i'm going to do main
section
and then
sections that are inside of it
yeah that should work
let's see
main
i just want this section though
i'm going to do main
section plus section
section
right because i just want i just want
the ones that are inside of here so i'll
do main section plus section
section
that should work yeah
and of course we could do classes could
use id but where's the fun in that when
you're writing bad code
so main
section
plus section oops not not asterick
plus
section
so give me the section
that's inside the sibling section that's
inside of main
so if we if we go and look at that one
more time just gonna know that's kind of
confusing we're in maine
we're gonna look for not this section
but this section that is the sibling and
then target all the sections that are
inside
right
and
we want them to sit next to each other
so they should be 50 width
and if the heights 500 pixels will make
them 250 pixels tall
right
so let's do that
i'll give them a width
percent and then
height i think we said 250
and then we need them sit next to each
other so we got to float them
and let's actually make sure we can see
them
and do a border
one pixels
solid black
it wouldn't be 25 width because there's
two of them sitting next to each other
right
there's two instead next to choice was
50 50.
let's go
first try
let's look at it let's look look here's
the image
header
to the big section sitting next to each
other three at the bottom and then ours
come on now
now of course there's like spacing we
gotta get right there's text we gotta
get right you gotta probably bring
things a little bit stress things out a
little bit but
in terms of
a few minutes to get a core layout done
that's it
i didn't spend time needling little
things i just got into it i didn't know
what to do in certain parts right like i
i kind of was like let me try this let
me let me let me see if this works let
me let me touch this let me move that
right
and that's the process i go through
i i just i get playful with my code
right i get playful with my code and the
sooner you can
let the inhibitions go
and have fun with it and knowing that
you're gonna probably code yourself into
a corner you're gonna get lost things
aren't gonna work the more you play with
it the more you tap into your inner body
and just write bad code
the better this is all gonna go for you
and i know that's a lot to ask for some
folks some folks really hold on to
perfection you gotta let it go
gotta write some bad code
right
cool
so i will of course share all of these
quick layouts that we did together
i will make sure you have all the code
right i'm gonna ask that over this
weekend you try these on your own right
you look up the things that you get
stuck on you look at my code don't be
afraid to look at my code if you get
stuck oh maybe why did leon do that
would i have done something differently
would i have not used domain or could i
have used display inline like think
about it play with it have fun with it
the sooner you have to have more fun
with your code the better this is all
going to be
get rid of that saying or something
that's inside your head that tells you
it has to be great has to be perfect
everyone starts here writing bad code
write bad code get some wins on the
board refactoring is for closers
let's keep pushing we got a few minutes
until class is over we did our layouts
a lot of y'all were kind of giving great
suggestions as we were going along so
good stuff everybody
all right
we talked about
responsive websites making sure our
sites look good across all devices i
just want to get some repetition in and
then we'll do
our raid as always
uh and spread some love and positivity
around so let's get some let's get some
um some review in real quick with our
last 10 minutes and then i'll talk about
the homework and the expectations over
the weekend and then i will do a raid
like we always do
so we used to have fixed websites
that were
stuck to one pixel size of width and no
matter what you did they didn't respond
to the size of the browser
that's in direct contrast to a site
that's responsive where the site will
look good
across all different devices right it'll
look good on mobile desktop laptop
tablet it doesn't matter i'm going to
say bye to tina bye tina
there we go
15 breaks gonna throw it back out
exactly
all right
so we talked about the core things
that make a site responsive
right has to be fluid
right all the stuff we did today
all the things that we just did today
like they're fluid
right i did everything in percentages
that's not bad folks that's not bad
it's fluid we got that fluid
underpinning right and so since we have
a fluid underpinning it looks good in
between screen sizes right
one thing that we didn't do too well
though as we were doing this was uh
making our fonts and things elastic
right that's something we would go back
and change first is making stuff elastic
sizing using m's and rems and then we
would have to start making content
decisions right let's start making
content decisions we have to start using
media queries to make those content
decisions but remember fluidity comes
from everything being in percentages
elasticity comes from using m's and rems
and next week we're going to spend more
times with m's and rims i know it's a
tricky topic the idea is it's just a
responsive unit of measure meaning that
we can set a base font size and then one
m is representing of that base font size
and so the beautiful thing is we could
do our whole site and rems and if we
wanted to double the size right if we
went to double the size we could just go
ahead and double our html here
yeah
cool
but the last really important thing
right the last important thing when it
comes to responsiveness
is content decisions what should remain
on the screen what shouldn't be there
should we get rid of this
list so we get rid of asides what
happens when we get to that screen size
and so we need fluid underpinnings
elastic underpinnings we need good
content decisions
cool how do we make content decisions
like what helps us make those content
decisions chat
our media queries exactly our media
queries are what help us
to make sure
that we are able to
[Music]
make those content decisions at
different sizes
here's an example of a media query right
where anything less than 600 pixels
would be colored blue
and uh we we coded media query last
class i'm going to say because we're
getting a little little long here
remember we want to have this meta
viewport uh at the top of any of our
of any of our templates to make sure
that our our media queries will work
across devices not just on desktop the
work on mobile tablet remember
we signed a lifelong pact uh to make
sure we never set user scalable to know
uh which would stop people from pinching
and zooming which is one of the biggest
accessibility devices that we have
available
your homework was to make this
responsive you should have already
turned it in if you don't you can turn
it in after class if you need to but
this was the homework to make it
responsive we're going to go over it
together on
on sunday so on sunday come back we'll
have office hours we'll review some of
the layouts we will review this layout
specifically we'll have time for
questions and
if you're kind of stuck on anything that
we did today or that we've done over the
past couple days come the office hours
we're going to get more repetition in
we're going to get more practice in and
we're going to have some fun with it
okay
homework
uh there are in our folders for today
there's a lot of stuff
a lot of stuff to be had for homework
this week and so i just want to make
sure everybody's on the same page and
that we go over it together
um
in the materials folder for today
we had the layouts that we did together
so we have these class layout photos the
bbc the khan academy the tech crunch
part of your homework this weekend right
part of your homework this weekend is to
go through and do these again right go
through and do the bbc do the khan
academy do the tech crunch in the same
vigor that i did it be a baddie write
bad code floats only
right no flex this is a no flex zone
until we get out of next week right play
with your percentages the reason why i
really also like it too is because it
forces you to
really understand the box model
understand how stuff are sitting next to
each other and so no flex zone
floats go back and do the bbc do the
khan academy do
the tech crunch make sure you feel good
with those
and then there's two other layouts that
i want you to work through
there's this homework layouts folder
that i have for you i want you to work
through those as well so the first one
is level ground
level ground is a client that we had at
resilient coders way back in the day
resilient coders had an agency and we
used to do projects for for other
non-profits and so this is one of the
clients we had and what we did and
here's kind of like what a a wireframe
would look like that comes from a
designer
it's kind of all boxes
and it's a pretty clean layout to try
for one of your first real layouts
right
um
you got kind of just plain text and
boxes and so if you can get through the
bbc you can definitely do this layout
and so be a baddie write bad code try
and get it as close as possible right
footer goes goes wild yeah don't don't
folk don't don't spend four hours on the
footer be a baddie write back code get
as close as you can
right
and then there is one other one
that is another
once you dip your toe into it won't be
due until next thursday i want you to
try
this layout i know these look scary at
first
but they're not
it's just some text
some sections and that's it it's exactly
what we just did right it's this is bbc
just in a slightly different way and
that's the beauty of it right
at first you're going to be shooketh
right at first you are shooketh but once
you do bbc you see the patterns your
everything opens up you start seeing
things floating around you right
and you start to realize holy crap
this is the bottom of bbc with one more
so instead of 33 it's 25. this is
exactly khan academy but we flipped it
we flipped this is exactly khan academy
we just put the text on the side and the
image on the right right
this this this header is easier than the
headers we did we did together today so
don't look at this and get scared
every single pattern that's here you
have already done
you've already done everything on this
page
then
take it
take it another level
give me a media query
make it look good on mobile right
don't let that doubt creep into you get
in play build
start to see the patterns build up
there's a reason we went from techcrunch
to khan academy to bbc to this those
patterns build
right don't worry about getting it pixel
perfect just get your win on the board
be a baddie right bad code
then
folks always want to folks always leon
can i push is there some push work i can
do i got through this i want to push
boom here you go that's your push work
have fun
it's your push work have fun
you you want you want to push there you
go push this is it build a real sight
get this layout done right that's your
push work so you asked for it that's
your push now i got this
and this from dribble
dribble is a place where folks can share
their designs so these are not my
designs
you can see max made this one and you
can actually i actually have the link in
the files and then
sergi made this one as well so these are
like not my designs these are just
coming from dribble
so definitely i'll link to the creators
as well
but yeah this is your work
you got you got some things to get done
this weekend folks we saw some layouts
we've unlocked our inner baddie we're
gonna write bad code and we're gonna
start to get some of this stuff done so
please i know it's a lot i know it's
hard but i know
that you can do this i know you can do
it
and so let's go ahead
let's get a raid going let's spread some
love and positivity
i really enjoy this person uh they do a
lot of data sciency stuff specifically
in sports uh which is really cool so
we're gonna go over the nick uh nick
when
and we're going to
give them some low positivity as follows
they're an amazing streamer and if you
want to play some cs go we're playing
some cs go later tonight i'll share it
in our channels when when the server
goes live feel free to come play hang
out test the server with me and we're
going to do this raid so let me go ahead
and keep up the raid real quick you
always want to do the raid because you
get the sweet sweet channel points
and i'll see you all over there
alright folks peace have a wonderful
evening hope you had some fun this class
writing some bad code i'll see you over
there let's raid
you